# Changes in Weather and Energy Generation in the United States of America
- The visualization shows us how weather data and the time of year change energy generation. One thing that is really easy to see is that most states use the most energy in the summer time, particularly in June. This can be seen by leaving June selected as the month and clicking around on the different states. Also, states in the northern part of the U.S. and the eastern part of the U.S. generate/use a lot of energy during winter time. Our visualization also makes it really easy to see how the climate across the US varies throughout the year by dragging the slider and looking at how the choropleth map changes. While this is not necessarily new data, it is a very smooth and visually appealing feature.
- One of the more surprising insights was all of the different types of energy fuels used throughout the country. By selecting different states, our visualization allows the user to easily see what types of energy is being used in that state and how much. By selecting a different state, the user can compare and contrast both the types of energy production and their amounts. For instance, I discovered that nuclear energy is the second most produced energy source in the state of New York and that the state uses natural gas almost twice as much in the summer than the winter.
- Another surprising insight is that a state’s population’s political affiliations also correlated to the most-produced fuel type. The highest produced resource for politically blue states (New York, California, Illinois, etc.) or with high Democratic populations (like Texas) tended to be alternative sources like natural gas, hydroelectricity, and nuclear energy. On the other hand, red states mostly produced coal (fossil fuels). This is really interesting and makes sense in context because these blue states are more likely to adopt environmentally-friendly energy sources due to highly-educated populations supporting environmental conservation.
